Add TiDB v3.0.16 release notes (#3097)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-3.0.16.md

---
title: TiDB 3.0.16 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 3.0.16 Release Notes

Release date: July 03, 2020

TiDB version: 3.0.16

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Planner: support `is null` filter condition in hash partition pruning [#17308](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17308)
    - Assign different `Backoffer` for each region to avoid the SQL command timeout issue when multiple region requests fail at the same time [#17583](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17583)

>     - Split partition region when adding a new partition [#17668](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17668)

Reviewer: 准确的中文是 “为新添加的 partition 切分单独的 region ”

Split separate regions for the newly added partition ?

>     - Split partition region when adding a new partition [#17668](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17668)

Reviewer 2: 好的

    - Discard feedbacks generated from `delete` / `update` statements [#17841](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17841)
    - Correct the usage of json.Unmarshal in job.DecodeArgs to be compatible with future Go versions [#17887](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17887)
    - Remove sensitive information in slow-log and statement [#18128](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18128)
    - Datetime parsing now matches MySQL 5.7 behavior for delimiters [#17499](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17499)
    - `%h` in date formats should now be in 1..12 range [#17496](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17496)

+ TiKV

    - Do not send store heartbeat when snapshot received [#8145](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8145)
    - Improve PD client log [#8091](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8091)

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

>     - Fix read/write inconsistent result when meet lock that point to a primary key has be insert/delete in own txn [#18248](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18248)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the data inconsistency issue occurred because the lock of a written and deleted primary key in one transaction is resolved by another transaction [#18248](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18248)
```

>     - Fix "Got too many pings" grpc error log in PD-server follower [#17944](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17944)

Reviewer 2: @lysu 
```suggestion
    - Fix the `Got too many pings` gRPC error log in the PD server-side followers [17944](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17944)
```

>     - Fix panic when the child of HashJoin returns TypeNull column [#17935](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17935)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the panic issue that might occur when the child of HashJoin returns the `TypeNull` column [#17935](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17935)
```

>     - Fix error message when access denied [#17722](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17722)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the error message when access is denied [#17722](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17722)
```

>     - Fix JSON comparison for int and float [#17715](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17715)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix JSON comparison issue for the `int` and `float` types [#17715](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17715)
```

>     - Failpoint: update failpoint which will cause data race before [#17710](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17710)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Update the failpoint which causes data race [#17710](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17710)
```

>     - Fix pre-split region timeout constraint not work when create table [#17617](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17617)

Reviewer 2: @crazycs520 PTAL
```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the timeout pre-split Regions might not work when creating tables [#17617](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17617)
```

>     - Fix panic after sending fail with ambiguous errors [#17378](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17378)

Reviewer 2: @lysu PTAL
```suggestion
    - Fix the panic caused by ambiguous error messages after the sending failure [#17378](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17378)
```

>     - Fix flashback table failed in some special cases [#17165](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17165)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `FLASHBACK TABLE` might fail in some special cases [#17165](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17165)
```

>     - Util: fix the wrong result when where stmt only have string column [#16658](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/16658)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of inaccurate range calculation results when statements only have string columns [#16658](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/16658)
```

>     - Fix error of query when `only_full_group_by` SQL mode is set [#16620](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/16620)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the query error occurred when the `only_full_group_by` SQL mode is set [#16620](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/16620)
```

>     - Fix wrong return length for case when function [#16562](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/16562)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the field length of results returned from the `case when` function is inaccurate [#16562](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/16562)
```

>     - Fix type infer for decimal property in count agg [#17702](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17702)

Reviewer 2: @lysu PTAL
```suggestion
    - Fix the `typeInfer` issue for the decimal property in the `count` aggregate function [#17702](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17702)
```

>     - Fix the `typeInfer` issue for the decimal property in the `count` aggregate function [#17702](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17702)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the type inference for the decimal property in the `count` aggregate function [#17702](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17702)
```

Reviewer 3: @TomShawn

+ TiKV

>     - Fix potential wrong result read from ingested file [#8039](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8039)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the potential wrong result read from ingested files [#8039](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8039)
```

>     - Fix a case that a peer can not be removed when its store is isolated during multiple merge process [#8005](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8005)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that a peer can not be removed when its store is isolated during multiple merge processes [#8005](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8005)
```

+ PD

>     - Fix the 404 problem when using region key in pd-ctl [#2577](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2577)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the `404` error when querying Region keys in PD Control [#2577](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2577)
```
